# Goals and milestones
This doc is outlines our goals and measures of success along with basic milestones.
## Outline of the problem
The problem is that many facilities currently suffer from the instability of the electrical grid caused by the addition of renewable energy sources (commonly referred to as RES). Additionally, it is advisable to increase the energy produced by RES, and indeed that seems to be the trend nowadays. The unfortunate consequence is that on good days we experience a drastic increase in available energy with no way to utilize it, and on the worst days, we may even experience local blackouts. The emerging solution to this problem is the introduction of microgrids. A microgrid is a localized energy grid that is by nature self-sustainable (more can be read [here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/microgrid)). However, the creation of microgrids is a challenging task due to several factors such as environmental conditions, unpredictable distribution of the load, etc. Our goal is to create a digital twin that could simulate such a grid and simplify the process of designing it before committing considerable resources.

## Goals and requirements
Below are our main requirements and goals for the system:
- A simulation that could reasonably be used in real life design scenarios.
- Simulation should allow to flexibly model the stability of the system and test it under varying conditions.
- Be able to create and remove energy nodes (by this we mean any RES source) and different elements of the system.
- We can simulate different weather conditions and varying energy demand.

### Initial measurability and metrics of goals
Since our system is supposed to ultimately be a simulation tool we start with building a system (not sim tool yet) that would optimize the following metrics:
- Green energy utilization (GEU - the percentage of utilized energy generated by RES. The closer to 100% the better.)
- Time under blackout (TUB) or time under green energy blackout (TUGB) (time when building is out of green energy) depending on project timeline since modeling full on blackout might turn out to be time too time consuming.
Final result is a superset of the this system that would allow to model different variations of the system and compare them based on the given metrics.

## Rough outline of milestones
1. Working agent based system with minimal GUI visualization. Here we assume the configs (external sources, weather condition etc.) are hardcoded.
2. Calculating metrics and displaying them.
3. Adjusting weather condition, energy demand from config files.
4. Adjusting system i.e. whether conditions, energy demand etc. from GUI.
5. Creating new system configs, testing them and manipulate time (speed it up, stop or slow it down) from GUI .
We hope to get to milestone 4 during the course.

## Initial outline of the types of agents in the system
We expect to have 1 types of agents:
- RES sources. This can be one type of agent that implements all kinds of energy sources.
- Energy storage units (batteries etc.).
- Weather agent relaying the weather conditions.
- Orchestrator agent responsible for coordinating simulation state.
This is a very rough initial assessment and is very likely to change in the future.
